# Pathmap as a Collection

A simplistic way to begin describing [PathMap] is as a collection type, with an interface and behaviors similar to the std collections like [HashMap], etc.  `PathMap` keys can be any type that is interpretable as a string of bytes, and its value type is a generic type parameter implementing `Clone + Send + Sync`.  A value can be set at any unique path and then retrieved.

Therefore `PathMap<V>` has a superset of the functionality offered by `HashMap<Vec<u8>, V>`.

```rust
GOAT, TODO, code sample
```

## The Power of Paths

Unlike hashable keys, paths have the property that they are fractal.  That is, one path may be a prefix to another path, and therefore any path may prefix the contents of an entire tree (or [trie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trie)) of paths beneath it.

This property allows for composition, where for example, one map can be embedded, aka [grafted](GOAT, link to graft in docs) within another, or a subtree from a map can be removed or copied to a stand-alone map with a single operation.

```rust
GOAT, TODO, code sample of both cases described above
```

## Structural Sharing

Storage inside `PathMap` makes use of references that can point to data within the same map or across multiple maps.  This means that it is possible to embed a structure with far more values than could be stored in memory.

For example, below is a graph representation of every possible path composed of the characters `['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']` 4 bytes long.  As you can see in the graph, 16 path bytes are stored within the structure.  Without structural sharing, it would be necessary to store 256 bytes (`4^4`) to represent the same tree.

[GOAT, graph of simplified representation]

For a real-world example, see the [OEIS](https://oeis.org/) section in the [Examples section (GOAT, fix this link)].